DML:-
Create a copy of table.
Syntax:
Create table table-name as select statement;
ex: create table emp1 as select * from emp;

DML(Data Manipulation Language):
-Used to manage and manipulate the data inside the database.
-DML is not directly connecteed to database, so the changes are not permanent.
-DML commands are not auto-commited.
-To make the changes permanent to database we should use TCL.

1)insert: Used to insert the values into the table.
Syntax: 1(if you want store all the values into all the columns for particular row)
insert into table-name values (value1, value2, value3.....);
ex:insert into product1 values (1,'car',1200,12-sep-2022);

syntax2:(if you want to store the values for particular column use syntax2)
insert into table-name (col1, col2, col3.....) values (value1, value2, value3.....) ;
ex: insert into product1 (pid,pname) values(1,bus);

TCL:Used to control the transaction done by the DML statement.
-TCL are applicable only for DML statement.

commit: used to save the data permanently into the database.
syntax: commit;

DQL: Data Query Language
-Used to retreive the data from the Database.
-select : Used to retreive/select the data from the table/database and to display it.
-The returned rows may be set of rows stored in a table called result table or result set.
-To retreive the data we have three different ways:
1)projection
2)selection
3)joins
																	
Projection: Used to retreive the data just by selecting the column is known as projection.
syntax: select */distinct column-name expression/aliasing
        from table-name;
order of execution: 1)from
					2)select
note: * selects all the column, once the column is selcted by default values get selcted.
-If user gives the table-name which is not present in the database, then user gets an error(table/view dosen't exist,)
-If user gives the col-name which is not present in the table, then user gets an error as invalid-identifier.
-Query: its a request sent to database to fetch the required data.

Q1)WAQTD details of employee.
ans- select * from emp;
Q2)WAQTD details of department.
ans- select * from dept;
Q3)WAQTD salgrade details.
ans- select * from salgrade;

Distinct: Used to remove the duplicate in specified column or in table.
-We can include more than one column in one distinct keyword/clause.
-We cannot have more than one distinct in one select statement.
-If the user has a requirement of using distinct, always the distinct should be the 1st argument after the select clause.

Q4)WAQTD employee name and salary of all the employee.
ans- select ename,sal from emp;
Q5)WAQTD employee name, salary, mgr, comm and deptno of all employee.
ans- select ename,sal,mgr,comm,deptno from emp;
Q6)WAQTD unique jobs.
ans- select distinct job from emp;
Q7)WAQTD unique deptno.
ans- select distinct deptno from emp;
Q8)WAQTD unique job, deptno of employee.
ans- select distinct job,deptno from emp;

Expression/aliasing:
Expression: Combination of operand and operator.

Aliasing: Used to rename the column-name.
-Aliasing can be done in 3 ways.
		1)using as keyword
		2)using space( )
		3)using double quote("")
1)old-column-name as aliasing-name
2)old-col-name aliasing-name
2)old-column-name "aliasing-name" (if you want space inside single column use the 3rd way(""))

Q9)WAQTD all the details of employee along with annualsal.
ans- select emp.*,sal*12 as annualsal from emp;
Q10)WAQTD all the details of employee along with their half term salary and anual salary.
ans- select emp.*,sal*6 "HALF TERM SAL",sal*12 "ANUAL SAL" from emp;
Q11)WAQTD empno as eid, sal as salary and deptno as dno.
ans- select empno eid,sal as salary,deptno "DNO" from emp;

Selection: Used to retreive the data by selecting noth columns and rows is known as selection.
syntax- select */distinct column-name expression/aliasing
		from table-name
		where <condition>;

Order of execution: from
					where
					select

Note: Where clause: used to filter the records inside the table.
-Where clause executes row by row process.
-we can write n number of conditon inside the where clause.
-We cannot write more than one where clause in one select statement.
-Where clause is implimented on rows.

**- If the condition is not satisfied in any of the row, we get the output as no rows selected.(If the given condition are false)
-In the selection, select is dependent on the where clause.(filtered rows)

Q1)WAQTD details of MARTIN.
ans- select * from emp where ename='MARTIN';
o/p- (1)no of rows
Q2)WAQTD details of employee who works as CLERK.
ans- select * from emp where job='CLERK';
o/p- (4)no of rows
Q3)WAQTD details of employee who are earning 3000.
ans- select * from emp where sal=3000;
o/p- (2)no of rows
Q4)WAQTD ename and deptno, if the employee works in deptno 30.
ans- select ename,deptno from emp where deptno=30;
o/p- (6)no of rows
Q5)WAQTD ename and hiredate, if employee hired on '03-DEC-81'.
ans- select ename, hiredate from emp where hiredate='03-DEC-81';
o/p- (2)no of rows
Q6)WAQTD employee name, salary and mgr, if employee reporting manager number is 7839.
ans- select ename,sal,mgr from emp where mgr=7839;
o/p- (3)no of rows 
Q7)WAQTD details of employee who earns commision more than 400.
ans- select * from emp where comm>400;
o/p- (2)no of rows
Q8)WAQTD details of employee, if employee number is 7902.
ans- select * from emp where empno=7902;
o/p- (1)no of rows
Q9)WAQTD details of employee along with annualsal, if annualsal is 36000.
ans- select emp.*,sal*12 as annualsal from emp where sal*12=36000;
o/p- (2)no of rows
Q10)WAQTD details of employee along with halfterm salary, if halfterm salary of employee is 40000.
ans- select emp.*,sal*6 as halfterm from emp where sal*6=40000;
o/p- (0)no of rows	
